# CS-255-System-Analysis-and-Design

Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
- The Client was a company called DriverPass and their goal was to become a valuable resource for young people to start learning the rules of driving through tests and to help with driving practice through scheduled driving sessions with instructors. The client wanted a web-based system that could be accessed from anywhere as long as you had an internet connection. The system was to store useful information and was to be updateable through the DMV to provide accurate information. Students could access DriverPass and register an account and choose a package for learning. Any package allowed for testing online and this could be done straight through the web-based platform. Additional packages would allow for hands on driving training with instructors that could leave notes and provide useful feedback. 

What did you do particularly well?
- I believe I handled the design documentation very well and did a good job at capturing what the client needed through Use Case, Activity, Sequence, and Class Diagrams. My diagrams were thorough and detailed to the point where I think that a product could easily be created from them. Additonally I think that my further explanation of the design documentation to the client was sufficient and non-technical enough that anyone could understand the purpose and detail included in the diagrams.

If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
- One section that I would like to revise is my Class Diagram as I think that I could offer a better level of detail and understanding with my attributes and classes. I would also go back and add some methods to help further understanding of how the classes can interact with their elements. The current design is basic and may be confusing to some so redesigning and adding detail would be a big help in bette rcommunication. 

How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
- I interpreted the users needs by examining the interview documentation very well and writing down every instance where the client said "the user needs to be able to". Additionally I paid close attention to the system design as it progresses and put myself in the shoes of the user. I asked myself what type of functionality would I need to be able to use this application. In this specific project is was easy to determine the users needs becuase the client provided the reasoning for them being there in the first place. In this aspect, I was able to work backwards to understand the users needs and then check to make sure that everything fell within the parameters for the projects. Its important to consider the users needs because you could create an entire project based on the clients needs from documentation but then it could be very rough around the edges and not very usable. Including the users needs is a great way to make sure that what you are making is something that can be used by the users effectively and wont just sit idle. 

How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
- I approach designing software first by collecting as much information as I possibly can from the client and potential users. Not every client is going to know exactly what they want and that shouldnt be an issue. There should be enough to get started and thankfully you can always go back to more interviews to collect more information later on after some general designs have been created. Interviews are the biggest strategy that I would use to get started and I would interview the client and potential users to make sure I can cover all of my bases. After all of the information I can collect has been collected I would then push forward with my design documentation and create as many diagrams as I can that would be useful. After that I would meet back with the client and make sure that everything looked good and then move onto the development phase. I would probably check back with the client multiple times and have many meetings to make sure that everything whas being done for the system and that nothing was being skipped. 

